---

copyright:
  years: 2017, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-07-09"

keywords: certificates, pem format, algorithms, public key, private keys, version control, pending order

subcollection: certificate-manager

---

{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:important: .important}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:preview: .preview}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:script: data-hd-video='script'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}



# Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
{: #faq}

Frequently asked questions about {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_long}}.
{: shortdesc}

## What format do my certificates need to be in?
{: #supported-certificate-types}
{: faq}

{{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} supports PEM formatted certificates only.

## What type of public key algorithms are supported?
{: #supported-pk-algorithms}
{: faq}
{: support}

{{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} supports importing of certificates with public keys that are generated by using the following public key algorithms:

* Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA)
* Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA)
* Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)
* Elliptic Curve with Diffie-Hellman key agreement protocol (ECDH)


## Can I upload password-protected private keys?
{: #password-protected-private-keys}
{: faq}

{{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} does not support importing certificates with password-protected private keys.


## Can I receive email notifications for expiring certificates?
{: #email-notifications}
{: faq}

Only Callback and Slack notifications are supported.


## Can I version control my certificates?
{: #certificate-versioning}
{: faq}

You can update a certificate by reimporting a new version of the certificate that has the same domain as the existing certificate, but has a new expiry date. When a certificate is reimported, the existing version of the certificate is retained as a backup, see [Reimporting a certificate](/docs/certificate-manager?topic=certificate-manager-managing-certificates-from-the-dashboard#reimport-certificate).



## Can I make specific certificates visible only to specific users?
{: #access-policies}
{: faq}

Certificates can be protected by using IAM access policies to achieve granular access control, see [Managing service access roles](/docs/certificate-manager?topic=certificate-manager-managing-service-access-roles#managing-service-access-roles).



## How do I revoke an issued certificate?
{: #revoke-certificate}
{: faq}
{: support}

{{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} currently has no revocation API you can use. However, you can use the Let's Encrypt API to revoke certificates by using the certificate private key. You can learn how to revoke Let's Encrypt certificates in the [Let's Encrypt documentation](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/revoking/).



## My certificate order status is in pending state for a long time
{: #certificate-order-status}
{: faq}
{: support}

On slow DNS networks, an order can take up to about 20 minutes to complete successfully.

## How long does the service try to validate that you own the domains that I request in my order?
{: #certificate-order-validation}
{: faq}

After the service sends the domain validation challenge, {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} tries to validate that you own the domains that you requested for up to 10 minutes. If your DNS is not updated with the TXT record challenge within 10 minutes, your order fails.

## How do I check the status of my certificate order by using the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} public API?
{: #certificate-order-status-api}
{: faq}

Use the `Get certificate metadata` API to poll the certificate order status.

## Can I be notified once my order is complete?
{: #certificate-order-notification}
{: faq}

If you configured a notification channel, you are notified once your certificate is issued, or if your order failed. Note the version of your notification channel must be v4 or higher.

## My order failed. Why?
{: #certificate-order-failure}
{: faq}
{: support}

You can find an error code and message in the certificate metadata, UI, and in the notification you received when your order failed.

## Why am I not receiving certificate order events in my existing Slack notification channel?
{: #missing-notification-for-ordered-certificate}
{: faq}

Upgrade your Slack notification channel to the latest version in the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} Notifications tab.

## I receive an error when I try to upload a certificate and private key 
{: #import-cert-private-key}
{: faq

You're trying to upload a certificate and private key but receive the following error message.

```
The private key doesn't match the certificate that you're trying to import. Ensure that they match and try again.
```
{: screen}

The private key might be encrypted or the certificate and key might not be a match.  
Depending on whether your private key is encrypted, choose one of the following options:

* The private key is encrypted. Make sure that you decrypt the private key before you upload it.

   ```
   openssl rsa -in [file1.key] -out [file2.key]
   ```
   {: codeblock}

* The private key is not encrypted. Make sure the certificate and the private key match by comparing the results of the following command, where `<certificate-file>` is the name of your certificate file and `<key-file>` is the name of your private key file:

   ```
   openssl x509 -modulus -noout -in <certificate-file>.pem | openssl md5; openssl rsa -modulus -noout -in <key-file>.key | openssl md5
   ```
   {: codeblock}
